[Music]
on a trip to the gulf earlier this week
French president Emanuel macroon called
for an immediate ceasefire Gaza and
questioned Israel's endgame a change of
tone from the start of the war when
Paris unequivocally backed Israel I
think we're at a point where the Israeli
authorities are going to have to Define
their objective and desired goal more
precisely what is the total Destruction
of Hamas and does anyone think it's
possible while France's position has
shifted in recent weeks that of some
other EU member states has not the
Israel Gaza War has divided the block
and its top institutions although the EU
has agreed on condemning hamas's October
7th attack it has failed to find a
collective response to subsequent
Israeli attacks that have killed
thousands of Palestinians including
children countries including Austria the
Czech Republic and Germany staunchly
defend Israel you have to understand
that in the DNA of every Democratic
politician in in Germany is that we say
never again um uh Germany was
responsible for the Sher for the
Holocaust so we have a very great uh
responsibility towards the security of
Israel but some countries including
Belgium Ireland and Spain criticize
Israel's response as disproportionate
this Spanish MEP says Israel should be
sanctioned and its leaders brought
before the international criminal
court we are calling for diplomatic
economic Commercial and Military
relations between the EU and Israel to
be severed and embargo on the purchase
and sale of weapons for nearly 2 years
the EU has been United on Ukraine but
its inability to speak with one voice
when it comes to the war on Gaza is
damaging its reputation as a foreign
policy player the Europeans have tried
for over a year to win the support of uh
the global South for its stance on
Ukraine on the basis of commitment to
Universal Norms like international law
but when we show that we are you know in
another conflict in this this conflict
not so committed to the same Norms then
we undermine our position two months
into the conflict the eu's become more
vocal about the suffering in Gaza it is
increased humanitarian aid for
Palestinians and the eu's foreign policy
Chief has called on Israel to respect
international law something the block
failed to do early on but as long as
member states remain divided the Block's
ability to influence what happens next
in the Middle East is likely to be
diminished Natasha
Al jazer
Brussels make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer